Hey guys welcome back to the chorus.
So in the last lecture I mentioned that most of the reasons for creating content can be grouped into
three big categories and branding and engagement.
And we had conversions.
So in this lecture let's focus on branding goals and see how content can help you reach them.
Now first of all what exactly is a brand anyway.
Isn't a brand just something that big corporations have.
Well yes and no.
Pretty much any business regardless of size has its own brand and a brand is not just your name and
a logo or your tagline it relates to what you say and what you do your actions shape people's perceptions
and attitudes about you along with their expectations.
So yeah your brand gets affected by all of those external things as well.
What people think of you is part of the deal.
This is why content is so connected to goals related to branding.
Think about how often you'll be creating and publishing content.
It's a lot more than how often you'll be rolling out a new product or even a product update.
All those tweets all those posts all those shares add up over time.
A lot of your father's experiences with you online will come in the form of content.
So what you create can help shape their impression of you.
In fact creating a good first impression is important for some of the most common branding goals like
establishing trust and connecting with people.
In other words building your following.
So how can you create a positive first impression through content planning.
The key to this is writing with the right voice.
When people first see our Web site or visit your social media page on Facebook or whatever they should
quickly get an idea of what you care about what topics you write about what kind of headlines you use.
What sort of language do you use.
What boys you use could be casual or it could be formal.
It could be helpful and supportive like a friend or more authoritative like an expert.
The voice you use when you write should connect to what you want to be seen as do you want to be everyone's
friend or do you want to be seen as the industry expert.
Now the answer is up to you but whatever direction you choose should basically echo throughout everything
you write.
For example if you sound like an expert with your formal voice on your blog then you shouldn't all of
a sudden sound like a quirky teenager on Twitter.
You need to be consistent with your voice.
Whatever voice you do go with it also helps to write in a human kind of way.
What I mean here is that there are real people behind every brand.
Customers are more likely to trust you and want to follow you if you show some kind of human emotion
throughout your content.
Motions aren't just happy or sad or angry.
A really powerful emotion is empathy which is the ability to understand and share the feelings of other
people and you understand your customers.
You'll be able to create better more relevant content that really speaks to their needs.
You'll know when one idea for a checklist for example is more needed than another.
If you can empathize with their followers you'll know how they might respond.
When something big happens in their industry and then you can write something to sympathize with them.
Celebrate with them or address certain fears they might have.
Maybe you're thinking right about now.
OK writing with the right voice and writing in a human way all sounds fine but what does what you're
actually write about.
I'm trying to write specifically for brand a great topic to help you strengthen your brand is generally
going to be something like writing about why you're here.
We've mentioned before company stories before as a way to explain company origin stories.
A lot of times these stories can touch upon family connections causes you believe in and situations
your customers can relate to especially if you were once in their shoes and decided to make a solution
to a common problem.
Scratch your own itch.
In fact if you haven't yet written your origin story do this.
Open up a Google doc or ER doc or whatever and start typing in it.
Answer these questions.
Why did you create your business or product.
Who helped you get started.
Who are you hoping to help.
What will success look like to you.
The first three questions might be easy because it's all you've thought about Probably but the last
one gets more to your mission.
Sure we all want to make money keep the business going and so on but in the end how will you know when
you've really made it.
What does real success actually mean to you.
The answers you come up with could be the focus of many of the pieces you create who you're trying to
help as your audience so you should write your content with them in mind while you started your business
or created your product speaks to the problems you're trying to solve and success gets to what you believe
in.
Whether you want to dominate the industry or give all your profits to orphanages or simply help one
person each day how do you measure success should ultimately drive what you do.
So once you figure out all of these things about yourself how can you communicate them through content.
Well number one if you wanted to focus on brand perhaps you should focus on interviews.
Interviews can give you opportunities to answer questions about yourself like the ones we discussed
yes you can actually interview yourself it's actually not that weird it's pretty common.
You can give your CEO or your founder some questions answer over email and then turn it into a Q&A blog
post or record a quick video and edit it in a fun way.
If that obviously suits your brand personality either way it can help humanize your company because
it shows that there are real people with real feelings behind the business.
If you want to make the interview even more relevant Here's a tip.
Put it into context with current events or a product release.
For example view an app and Apple just released a big iOS update.
Maybe you'd interview your lead app developer and then ask them about updates when your customers can
expect them and then talk about any new features.
It's an easy way to tie into something relevant for your customers and it shows that staying up to date
is important to your brand.
The second way you can focus on branding is to communicate through videos.
Now videos can be fun ways to give followers a peek behind the curtain.
Who is the CEO and what are they like.
Let them talk about themselves or have someone interview him or her as just as you can get your friend
to interview you.
How does this company get stuff done.
What tools do they use or what partners do they work with is a company for example Zendesk Well they
created a video about their company a few years back and it's still great.
I mean it's definitely quirky but it manages to show you a ton of different aspects of the company like
their people their office what they care about.
Is a good example for showing that the production value of your video role will reflect your standards.
If you're more informal maybe you can get away with video shot off your laptop.
But many companies would probably opt for higher production values.
Don't worry we'll actually cover video marketing in more detail real soon.
I'll send it as the next section.
Now the third thing you can do are case studies case studies can be powerful ways to prove your worth
by showing evidence of your success.
They can also get into detail about who your customers are and what kind of solution you represent.
Are you just a temporary stopgap or a long term partner.
You'll have to make that clear for your audience.
Let me share a quick example with you of a piece of content that was definitely created to focus exclusively
on branding.
OK in the summer of 2016 buffer was forced to make layoffs.
OK buffer is that online app that helps you schedule your social media post for you.
Very popular they're well known for like being 100 percent remote and having quirky company values whatever.
So buffer was laying people off.
But instead of remaining silent or spinning the event they posted about it in their blog.
And in fact the post read like a case study going into deep detail and running a level of transparency
most companies would not dare to show.
Now why exactly would they share all of these details about an objectively bad thing that's happening
to the company.
Well it's because part of buffer's brand is about believing in transparency.
They've written about it and demonstrated it many times.
So even though the Post covered a sad event for the company the post stayed true to their spirit of
transparency.
Now just a quick word of warning when you write about yourself Just remember your goals.
If you're writing to improve brand awareness and reputation.
Don't write posts that basically calls for people to buy your stuff.
There will always be opportunities to sell but as part of your content strategy content created for
branding purposes should stay focused on making connections not making money.
So those are some of the ways to write in support of brand goals and a few examples of how others have
done it.
Next up we're going to discuss how to create content that supports engagement.
What does that mean.
Well you're going have to find out by watching the next lecture.
See the.